Gitblit
=================

Gitblit is an open source, pure Java Git solution.

Gitblit can be found at: http://gitblit.com and is licensed under
the Apache Software Foundation license, version 2.0.

Contents
--------
 - License
 - Java/Application server requirements
 - Getting help
 - Building Gitblit
 
License
-------

Gitblit is distributed under the terms of the Apache Software Foundation
license, version 2.0. The text is included in the file LICENSE in the root
of the project.

Java/Application server requirements
------------------------------------

Gitblit requires at least Java 1.6.

Getting help
------------

 - Read the online documentation available on the Gitblit website
   (http://gitblit.com)

Building Gitblit
----------------
[Eclipse](http://eclipse.org) is recommended for development as the project settings are preconfigured.

1. Import the gitblit project into your Eclipse workspace.<br/>
*There will be lots of build errors.*
2. Using Ant, execute the `build.xml` script in the project root.<br/>
*This will download all necessary build dependencies and will also generate the Keys class for accessing settings.*
3. Select your gitblit project root and **Refresh** the project, this should correct all build problems.
4. Review the settings in `gitblit.properties` in your project root.<br/>
Make sure you set an appropriate value for *git.repositoriesFolder*. 
5. Execute the *com.gitblit.Launcher* class to start Gitblit.   
   